=head1 NAME

unlinkmkv - automate the tedious process of unlinking segmented MKV files.

=head2 WHAT?

A segmented MKV is an MKV that utilizes external additional MKV files to create a "whole" MKV. A common example is that when an anime series uses the same introduction and ending in every episode, sometimes the encoder will break the introduction and ending into their own MKV files, and then "link" to the segments as chapters in each episode's individual MKV. The problem is that very few players/filters/splitters support this, so this script automates the mkvtoolnix tools to "Rebuild" each episode into "complete" MKVs.

=head2 VERSION

version 1.00

=head2 SYNOPSIS

Using UnlinkMKV to unlink segments, the chapters when viewing the video ARE retained. The MKV spec requires that the segmented files are in the same directory, so does this. It doesn't matter if you rename the files as long as all required files are in the same directory as the one being processed, segmenting is based on internal IDs. Depending on how the original files were made, you may need to use the fix-audio and fix-video options.

By default unlinkmkv will now use the current directory as a default video directory if a file or directory is not given on the command line. This means that if unlinkmkv is set up and on your path, the majority of the time you can simply enter the directory and simply run "unlinkmkv" with no options.

Say we have the files:

   princess-ressurection-ep-1.mkv
   princess-ressurection-clean-opening.mkv
   princess-ressurection-clean-ending.mkv

And "princess-ressurection-ep-1.mkv" links the opening and ending files in the "appropriate places."

   unlinkmkv --outdir "/home/user/Desktop/Princess Ressurection" princess-ressurection-ep-1.mkv

Doing so will generate a new file with the opening and ending built-in instead of externally linked like before, renaming the original file and replacing the old one with the new one. Obviously the new file will be the size of the original + opening + ending (bigger).

Now, we test the file in a video player. It's important to check for audio or video problems, especially when transitioning between where the segments would have come in. Often times this is the opening/ending and the main show, so seek inside both places and make sure sound is playing in both places, and the video looks fine. Let's
pretend our sound is totally missing in the main video, and the video is corrupt!

   unlinkmkv --fixaudio --fixvideo --outdir "/home/user/Desktop/Princess Ressurection" princess-ressurection-ep-1.mkv

What happens is sometimes encoders use codecs that don't play well with matroska, and can't be assembled as they were -- either the codec (OGG) or the settings (thanks, encoder guy) being the cause. The fix-audio and fix-video option simply re-encodes the audio and video into a uniform format that plays nice, with settings that try to not reduce the quality very much (not noticable), nor make the files hugemassive. See the FFMPEG notes!

You can also use an absolute or relative path instead, so, assume you're in a directory containing the entire seeson of an anime including the segmented file parts:

   princess-ressurection-ep-1.mkv
   princess-ressurection-ep-2.mkv
   princess-ressurection-ep-3.mkv
   princess-ressurection-clean-opening.mkv
   princess-ressurection-clean-ending.mk

You could process them all at once with:

   unlinkmkv --fixaudio --fixvideo --outdir "/home/user/Desktop/Princess Ressurection" "/home/user/videos/Princess Resurrection"

=head2 INSTALLATION

Clone this repository on linux and macosx, you can also simply "Download zip" on the right; I've heard there is an unofficial package for Arch linux that I'm told works well. For windows
see the next section. Make sure you meet all the dependencies described in the dependency section.

Configuration is done in a YAML file named unlinkmkv.ini that should exist next to the script. An example file is included named unlinkmkv.ini.dist. Copy this to unlinkmkv.ini and make
any required changes for your system.

==head2 WINDOWS

This script has been updated for cross platform compatibility and currently is tested to work on arch linux, debian, ubuntu, and windows so long as all required dependencies are met. For
windows an archive exists in the dist/ directory with a compiled version of the script, the required dependencies, and a pre-configured ini to use them -- This distribution is essentially
a "portable" windows version. After unarchiving either add the new path to your environment PATH variable or simply use an absolute path to it on the command line.

=head2 DEPENDENCIES

This script requires:

   Perl        >= 5.8.9
   MKVToolnix  >= 5.1.0
   XML::LibXML >= 2.0001
   IPC::Run3
   File::Which
   String::CRC32
   Log::Log4perl
   Math::BigFloat
   FFMPEG      == *real* version of ffmpeg. Recent versions of Ubuntu and Debian come with a prominent ffmpeg fork called libav, which is *not* fully compatible.
   Hard drive space, if your temp directory is small, set it to someplace else -- especially if using fix audio or fix video!

=head2 USAGE

   unlinkmkv {options} {file|path}

   Options:
   --tmpdir               Set a custom temporary/working folder, /tmp/umkv is the default
   --outdir               Output directory, required!
   --fixaudio, -fa        Encode audio, not currently customizable; encodes to 320k AAC for the time being.
   --fixvideo, -fv        Encode video, not currently customizable; encodes to 8-bit h264 at whatever the existing average bitrate was up to 110% higher then that.
   --fixsubtitles, -fs    Defaults to on. Sometimes groups don't use uniform subtitle styles and fonts in all segments, it's a good idea to leave this enabled.
   --playresx             Occassionally the original encoder uses different subtitle resolutions in the different segments. When combined, it causes problems. This forcibly
                          sets the X resolution for subtitle rendering.
   --playresy             Same as above, but for the Y axis (vertical).
   --ignoredefaultflag    Occassionally the default chapter flag exists, but *all* chapters are disabled which confuses the script. Enable on those rare occassions.
   --(no-)chapters        The script does its best to adjust the chapters, but it's not quite perfect. This disables including chapters in the final file.
   --ffmpeg [path]        Specify a path to the ffmpeg binary to use.
   --mkvextract [path]    Specify a path to the mkvextract binary to use.
   --mkvinfo [path]       Specify a path to the mkvinfo binary to use.
   --mkvmerge [path]      Specify a path to the mkvmerge binary to use.



=head2 SUPPORT

Feel free to contact me via Github or by email at g.unlinkmkv -at- idiotb.us.

=head2 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2016 Garret C. Noling

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
